# Testing In Context
Software tests can be grouped into two broad global categories:

    Functional tests
    Non-functional tests

### Functional tests
Functional tests refer to tests that prove that the software does what it was designed to do.
- **Unit tests**: testing the basic units in which the software is organized, working in isolation.
- **Integration tests**: testing sets of basic units that are related to each other, to verify that their relationships work correctly.
- ** Acceptance tests**: testing the entry and exit points of the software to verify that its behavior is as defined by the stakeholders.
- **Regression tests**: these are tests that can detect the consequences of changes we may have made in the software that lead to undesired behavior.
- **Characterization tests**: these are tests that are written when the software does not have other tests and are usually created by running the software under certain conditions and observing the results.

**Test Driven Development** can also be practiced at all three levels. The idea is that tests are defined first and the code is written for the tests to pass. Once this is achieved, after eliminating possible redundancies, the written tests are automatically converted into regression tests.

### Non-functional tests
**Non-functional tests** refer to how the software works. Apart from providing functionality, it is necessary that the software offers reliability, responsiveness, etc., something that is transversal to all types of applications and that can be measured in different ways. These tests test things such as, among others:
- **Speed**: It tells us if the software returns results in the desired time.
- **Load**: It tells us if it can support a given workload, which can have different measures: simultaneous connections, volume of data it can process at once, etc.
- **Recovery**: It tells us if a system is able to recover correctly in case of failure.
- **Fault tolerance**: This tells us whether the system reacts correctly if failures occur in other systems on which it depends.

**Non-functional tests** seek to check that the system behaves within certain parameters and that it reacts correctly to certain contingencies that are beyond its scope.

*Same scheme* as the functional tests:
A scenario or **initial state** of the system *is defined *(**Given**).
An **action** *is executed* on the system (**When**).
The system** response ** is observed to see if it *matches the expected one* (**Then**).

**Therefore**:
We put the system in a known **state assuming certain conditions**.
We **measure the time** it takes to be ready to accept an input.
We**check if this time is less** than the desired time.
